kicking off the second series of the
bike show we have a motorcycle that
exists in a class of just two and if I
tell you that the other bike in the
class is Suzuki Hayabusa you should be
able to guess what I'm about to ride
yeah this is Kawasaki zx-10r and back
when these bikes first made their
appearance on the scene they invented a
whole new phrase to describe the
ridiculous levels of performance they
called them hyper bikes and in 2012
Kawasaki has given the bike a serious
update to make sure it remains the bike
to beat but you'd have to be a bit of a
ZX Fundy to really notice the difference
just from the visuals the zx-14r is
undoubtedly a big bike long and low like
a thoroughbred drag racer and from the
side the silhouette is very much the
same as it always has been from the rear
the view also remains largely unchanged
as it should because the riding position
retains the same proportions which means
it is roomy and comfortable perhaps the
most immediately striking update is this
amazing new color which looks deep and
lush and even comes with Lane effects as
standard the biggest modification though
is up front where a reworked headlight
cluster gives the 14 a more aggressive
look and those fins in the side of the
fairing are now more pronounced and are
designed to aid high speed stability
holding everything together is a stiffer
version of the existing ally monocoque
frame that is unique to Kawasaki and on
this model from four ways Kawasaki
there's a beautiful carbon Akrapovic
silencer that makes a lovely noise and
liberates a couple of extra horsepower
not exactly necessary on a bike that
Kawasaki claims makes 197 brake
horsepower or 207 when the ram air is
working at high speeds
those big speeds obviously need very big
breaks and the radial Nissen calipers
and 310 millimetre disks are more than
up to the job
suspension is plush and fully adjustable
keeping those 200 horses in check is a
three-way adjustable traction control
system that can also be disabled
completely and there's an alternate
power mode that can lop off 25% of the
available power both of which can be
adjusted from a switch on the left
handlebar I kept the full power mode and
left the traction control in its least
intrusive setting the most important
part of any performance bike is a bit
that's hidden away behind the
aerodynamic fairings the engine and in
the cars a keys case this year it's
grown almost 100 CC's to 1441 and that
means it should have more power and more
speed so let's give it a try ok they
shouldn't be too difficult easy enough
to launch Bilderberg visitor
I was pretty exhilarating I'm steaming
up a visor straight line performance
maybe what grabs the zx-14 all the
headlines deservedly so
but there's so much more to this bike
than that and I'm in the perfect
location to show you exactly what I mean
I'm using one of the finest motorcycling
roads in the country long time passing
and Puma langa is fast and flowing and
unlikely even more legendary sabe -
hazyview road visibility through the
turns is good this is a perfect
environment for the ZX 14 a seemingly
endless rush of torque from what is a
super smooth 4-cylinder engine and a
slick gearbox combined to eat up the
kilometers can such a rapid and
stress-free way that no other
two-wheeler could hope to match
the blend from the wheelbase on the dead
Explorer team this year make it more
stable make it a better brand binder
suppose you think the power would be
that it would cheer like a Braj
big bag
seriously we
it might not have the lightning
reactions of a full-on Superbike but
it's still a responsive sport bike that
somewhat surprisingly takes very little
effort to ride fast the suspension is
quite simply excellent
the ride quality is dot class which
makes for relaxing cruising and yet
there's still enough control in the
forks and rear shock to let you keep the
pace up when the road gets bumpy and
unpredictable being a physically big
bite means the riding position is roomy
and moving around on the z axis the
speeds climb is as natural as it is on a
narrowly focused track bike but don't
let your concentration waver for even a
second because the zx-14 is deceptively
fast this Kawasaki makes extraordinary
speed seem very ordinary and it's all
too easy to let this 300 kilometer an
hour road going missile suck you into a
corner way way faster than you intended
but don't worry too much because the
Nissen brakes will get you out of most
overcook corner entries and a very
clever traction control sort you out on
the corner exits if you get just a bit
too eager with the throttle
the zx-14r has definitely been designed
as the most powerful motorcycle in the
world as the fastest motorcycle in the
world
in fact it's been designed as the
ultimate basis for a drag racing bike
and as such it's long its low and it is
very very fast
I started this test describing it as a
hyper bike and of course it is a hyper
buy anything with this level of
performance can only be a hypervisor but
at the risk of annoying possibly every
single zx-14 owner in the country I
think a better description would be a
sport tourer
it's incredibly comfortable for rider
and pillion it's stuffed full of gadgets
to make riding safe and easy sport
tourer it is don't think of it as a
hyper bike that's just a little part of
its abilities this is possibly the
finest sport tourer that money can buy